<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

-   [Atom][1]
    -   [Parameters][2]
    -   [name][3]
    -   [nucleusColor][4]
    -   [nucleusColor][5]
        -   [Parameters][6]
    -   [electronColor][7]
    -   [electronColor][8]
        -   [Parameters][9]
    -   [nucleusRadius][10]
    -   [nucleusRadius][11]
        -   [Parameters][12]
    -   [electronCount][13]
    -   [electronCount][14]
        -   [Parameters][15]
    -   [electronSpeed][16]
    -   [electronSpeed][17]
        -   [Parameters][18]
    -   [spinX][19]
    -   [spinX][20]
        -   [Parameters][21]
    -   [spinY][22]
    -   [spinY][23]
        -   [Parameters][24]
    -   [spinZ][25]
    -   [spinZ][26]
        -   [Parameters][27]
    -   [nucleusVibrate][28]
    -   [nucleusVibrate][29]
        -   [Parameters][30]
    -   [electronVibrate][31]
    -   [electronVibrate][32]
        -   [Parameters][33]
    -   [noise][34]
    -   [noise][35]
        -   [Parameters][36]
    -   [counterX][37]
    -   [counterY][38]
    -   [counterZ][39]
    -   [generateRandoms][40]
        -   [Parameters][41]
    -   [calcDeltaTime][42]
    -   [drawNucleus][43]
    -   [drawElectrons][44]
    -   [drawElectron][45]
        -   [Parameters][46]
    -   [drawOrbits][47]
        -   [Parameters][48]
    -   [draw][49]

## Atom

Class representing an atom.

### Parameters

-   `posX` **[number][50]** The x position of the nucleus of the atom. (optional, default `0`)
-   `posY` **[number][50]** The y position of the nucleus of the atom. (optional, default `0`)
-   `nucleusRadius` **[number][50]** The radius of the nucleus, in pixels. (optional, default `15`)
-   `rotsPerSec` **[number][50]** A constant that determines how fast the electrons move around their orbits. (optional, default `1`)
-   `electronCount` **[number][50]** The number of electrons in the atom. (optional, default `3`)
-   `tailSpheres` **[number][50]** The number of spheres that makes up each electron. (optional, default `15`)

### name

Gets the name of the atom (according to the periodic table).

Returns **[string][51]** 

### nucleusColor

Gets the color of the nucleus.

Returns **p5.Color** 

### nucleusColor

Sets the color of the nucleus.

#### Parameters

-   `newColor` **p5.Color** 

Returns **[undefined][52]** nothing

### electronColor

Gets the color of the electrons.

Returns **p5.Color** 

### electronColor

Sets the color of the electrons.

#### Parameters

-   `newColor` **p5.Color** 

Returns **[undefined][52]** nothing

### nucleusRadius

Gets the radius (in pixels) of the nucleus.

Returns **[number][50]** 

### nucleusRadius

Sets the radius (in pixels) of the nucleus.

#### Parameters

-   `newRadius` **[number][50]** 

Returns **[undefined][52]** nothing

### electronCount

Gets the current number of electrons in the atom.

Returns **[number][50]** 

### electronCount

Sets the current number of electrons in the atom.

#### Parameters

-   `newElectronCount` **[number][50]** 

Returns **[undefined][52]** nothing

### electronSpeed

Gets the orbital speed of the the electrons.

Returns **[number][50]** 

### electronSpeed

Sets the orbital speed of the electrons.

#### Parameters

-   `newSpeed` **[number][50]** 

Returns **[undefined][52]** nothing

### spinX

Gets whether spinning about the x-axis is enabled or disabled.

Returns **[boolean][53]** 

### spinX

Sets whether spinning about the x-axis is enabled or disabled.

#### Parameters

-   `newSpinX` **[boolean][53]** 

Returns **[undefined][52]** nothing

### spinY

Gets whether spinning about the y-axis is enabled or disabled.

Returns **[boolean][53]** 

### spinY

Sets whether spinning about the y-axis is enabled or disabled.

#### Parameters

-   `newSpinY` **[boolean][53]** 

Returns **[undefined][52]** nothing

### spinZ

Gets whether spinning about the z-axis is enabled or disabled.

Returns **[boolean][53]** 

### spinZ

Sets whether spinning about the z-axis is enabled or disabled.

#### Parameters

-   `newSpinZ` **[boolean][53]** 

Returns **[undefined][52]** nothing

### nucleusVibrate

Gets whether the nucleus is vibrating.

Returns **[boolean][53]** 

### nucleusVibrate

Sets whether the nucleus is vibrating.

#### Parameters

-   `newVal` **[boolean][53]** 

Returns **[undefined][52]** nothing

### electronVibrate

Gets whether the electrons are vibrating.

Returns **[boolean][53]** 

### electronVibrate

Sets whether the electrons are vibrating.

#### Parameters

-   `newVal` **[boolean][53]** 

Returns **[undefined][52]** nothing

### noise

Gets whether the nucleus has noise.

Returns **[boolean][53]** 

### noise

Sets whether the nucleus has noise.

#### Parameters

-   `newVal` **[boolean][53]** 

Returns **[undefined][52]** nothing

### counterX

Gets the counterX value.

Returns **[number][50]** \_counterX

### counterY

Gets the counterY value.

Returns **[number][50]** \_counterY

### counterZ

Gets the counterZ value.

Returns **[number][50]** \_counterZ

### generateRandoms

Generates 20 random rotations between 0 and 2π.
These random rotations determine the starting location of each atom meaning that they are not all in sync.

#### Parameters

-   `numberOfRandoms` **[number][50]** 

### calcDeltaTime

Calculates the time passed between each call of draw().

Returns **[number][50]** 

### drawNucleus

Draws the nucleus to the canvas.

### drawElectrons

Draws the specified number of electrons to the canvas.

### drawElectron

Draws a specific electron and tail. Its position relative to other electrons is determined by the index of the electron.

#### Parameters

-   `index` **[number][50]** 

### drawOrbits

Draws the orbit for each electron onto the canvas.

#### Parameters

-   `thickness` **[number][50]** The thickness of the orbit.

### draw

Draws the nucleus, electrons and orbits to the canvas.

[1]: #atom

[2]: #parameters

[3]: #name

[4]: #nucleuscolor

[5]: #nucleuscolor-1

[6]: #parameters-1

[7]: #electroncolor

[8]: #electroncolor-1

[9]: #parameters-2

[10]: #nucleusradius

[11]: #nucleusradius-1

[12]: #parameters-3

[13]: #electroncount

[14]: #electroncount-1

[15]: #parameters-4

[16]: #electronspeed

[17]: #electronspeed-1

[18]: #parameters-5

[19]: #spinx

[20]: #spinx-1

[21]: #parameters-6

[22]: #spiny

[23]: #spiny-1

[24]: #parameters-7

[25]: #spinz

[26]: #spinz-1

[27]: #parameters-8

[28]: #nucleusvibrate

[29]: #nucleusvibrate-1

[30]: #parameters-9

[31]: #electronvibrate

[32]: #electronvibrate-1

[33]: #parameters-10

[34]: #noise

[35]: #noise-1

[36]: #parameters-11

[37]: #counterx

[38]: #countery

[39]: #counterz

[40]: #generaterandoms

[41]: #parameters-12

[42]: #calcdeltatime

[43]: #drawnucleus

[44]: #drawelectrons

[45]: #drawelectron

[46]: #parameters-13

[47]: #draworbits

[48]: #parameters-14

[49]: #draw

[50]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number

[51]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[52]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/undefined

[53]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean
